The TIOP Minimum Viable Product (MVP) has been created as a pilot data-sharing mechanism for exchanging serialized traceability data to meet emerging regulatory requirements in GHSC-PSM countries. In addition to the pilot system itself, the creation of TIOP is intended to gather lessons learned about event data requirements and data-sharing mechanisms that can be implemented broadly across the global health community. Specifically, TIOP will gather information about the volume of data and dynamic nature of event data, message syntax, and structure, thus streamlining future conversations for data exchange. 

The structural choice to adopt a semi-centralized approach for this pilot is a result of a working discussion in the global health community. In September 2023, the global health community, including members of the Verification and Traceability Initiative (VTI), other global organizations like WHO and World Bank, and countries such as Nigeria, Rwanda, and Zambia came together through a Global Traceability Visioning Workshop to envision what a global traceability architecture might look like in the future. The goal of this architecture was to enable the exchange of serialized traceability from global parties – including manufacturers, donors, and their procurement agents – to national systems so that those countries are then able to implement their own national traceability programs. A result of the workshop included ideation on various pre-country traceability architectural approaches for data sharing in the global health community. The concept of TIOP is a unique, semi-centralized approach intended to establish and leverage standards while allowing for flexibility and extensibility as the players or needs of the global health community evolve. 

All design specifications, SOPs, user guides, data models and additional product details can be found in our Final Technical Document located on the GHSC-PSM website. 
